In regression,
	map R^D dimension to R

	y_n = f(x_n) + epsilon
		epsilon is an i.i.d R.V. that describes measurement/observation noise and potentially unmodeled processes
			zero-mean is assumed

Each point has a measurement noise associated with it
	And for each point we can plot a distribution along the outward dimension

Applicaitions of Regression
	Time Series Analysis (e.g. System Identification)
	Control and Robotics (e.g. Reinforcement Learning, Forward/Inverse Model Learning)
	Optimization (e.g. Line Searches, Global Optimization)
	Deep-Learning applications (e.g. Computer Games, Speech-to-text translation, Image Recognition, Automatic Video Annotation)

	Classification Algorithms

Finding a "Regression Function" requires solving a varity of problems:-
	1. Choice of model (type) and the parameterization
		What function classes are good? (Polynomial)
		What particular paramterization? (Degree of Polynomial)

		Answered by Model Selection

	2. Finding good parmameters
		How to find good model paramters?
			Need to see the loss/objective functions 

		Optimization algorithms that allow us to minimize the loss

	3. Overfitting and model selection
		Does not generalize

		Overly flexible and expressive

	4. Relationship between loss functions and paramter priors
		Loss functions are often motivated and induced by probabilistic models.

		Connection between loss functions and the underlying prior assumptions that induce these losses.

	5. Uncertainty modeling
		Given that this finite amount of training data does not cover all possible scenarios,
			we may want to describe the remaining parameter uncertainty to obtain a measure of confidence at test time

			The smaller the training set, the more important uncertainty modeling.

			Consistent modeling of uncertainty equips model predictions with confidence bounds.

			<<< CHECK THIS OUT >>>


	Outline :-
		Maximum Likelihood and Maximum A Posteriori
			to find optimal model parameters

		Generalization errors and overfitting

		Bayesian Linear Regression
			Reason about model parameters at a higher level, thereby removing some of the problems encountered in Maximum Likelihood and MAP estimation.
